[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The road to the four sacred
peaks has taken us through
lightning storms on the
way to the temple of death
at Kedarnath, to the bliss
found in the gap at Tungnath,
and to the harsh truths of
ego-based relationships while
in Badrinath, and then a clear
window into our true power
and purpose of service, the
valley of flowers in Hemkun
Sahib.
But now an unexpected
fifth peak, and it's
right here where we
began in Rishikesh.
An unplanned lesson from
the great Ganga River.
>> We chose a very specific
journey to be challenged,
to grow, to go deep, to become
aware of the ignorant particles
floating within us because
there is ignorance within us
as within so without.
Oh, I expected this.
I expected this.
Life is far greater than our
expectations, thankfully so,
my master used to say.
If life turned out the way
human beings thought it would,
we would be in big trouble.
People would be
falling off the edges
because they expected if
you walked far enough,
you would fall off
the edge of the Earth.
[THEME MUSIC]
>> This is not a
journey to feel better.
Do you understand?
You come here to transcend.
>> The teachings are always
coming in different ways
for sure.
They're coming
through experience,
they're coming in
ways you don't expect,
and the practice always
has to be that we're
able to take it in and use it.
Whatever is coming to us
is not always what we want.
That's for sure.
Not always the way we expect it.
>> I watched all those guys go
and I said to myself 45 seconds
before it happened.
Jeff's getting tired
of dicking around.
He's just going to go, you know?
And he did.
I had one of the GoPros
and I was taping it
and I watched the
whole thing happen.
>> I don't really know.
Really tired.
In the flowing Ganga.
Rapids.
Not exactly sure
what the heck just
happened because I really pushed
and I was really close to shore
and then was whipped
out of there.
>> I saw Jeff and Adam both
get taken into that eddy,
and Jeff started to have a
little bit of a panic session.
>> And here's like where like
it all started to kind of unfold
is where I looked up and
saw somebody else like panic
or whatever.
And he was saying,
help, help, to the side.
>> At this point I'm super
tired and I'm thinking we're all
in trouble.
Jeff is panicking and I can't
see anyone else having made it
across the river yet.
So I just try to float
like Anand had told me,
but when I do so the
river just pulls me under
and I keep spinning around
in the eddy in circles.
I'm losing energy every second.
>> I saw him go under a couple
of times and I was really
starting to panic, you know?
And having only known
these guys a short time,
it seems kind of
weird, but you know,
they're like brothers to me now.
>> And you know, I mean, I
definitely wanted to live.
That's one thing I
thought for sure.
I was like, oh shit,
I don't want to die.
So as much as I think
I've faced death
on previous adventures
and all this, you know,
there was something in
me that was just still
not totally at ease with it.
That's for sure.
That still was like,
uh-uh, not yet.
>> So before losing all of my
energy and getting swept down
the river into the Ganga,
I yelled and signalled
to the rafting boats that
Jeff and I needed help.
>> That was-- you know, I
panicked on the beach that day
I'm sure almost as much as Adam
was panicking in the water.
It was scary.
Yeah, my heart was pounding.
I'm sure Adam's
heart was pounding.
>> It got real for
a second, you know?
The going under and the gulping.
Ah fuck.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> I know Adam.
He's already a highly
evolved guy as far
as his spirit and
his emotions go,
but I'm sure that that
changed him in some way.
That short period of
time where he was sure
that the mother was
going to take him
and then she just spit
him back out, that had
to have changed something
inside of him I'm sure.
>> So as I'm taking time
to process almost dying,
Anand reminds us about his guru,
the relationship his guru had
to the river and
ultimately to death.
>> One day I remember, this
is two or three days before he
left his body, I went into his
room and he just stood up like
a rock.
He said, OK, let's meditate
and we meditated for an hour
and I was so full of
energy, strong, powerful.
So we called him Maharaji.
Maharaji means the
king, the royal one.
Maharaj meaning
the king of kings.
And the day he left his
body I remember he asked--
he called my mother--
because always suspected
that God a sacred feminine--
to go to the Ganga right
there in that moment
and bring Ganga water.
She brought the Ganga water and
it was full moon that night.
She brought the
Ganga water and he
asked her to put three
drops in his mouth.
And she put three drops of
the Ganga's water in his mouth
and he was gone.
Third drop and he left his body.
I think that's brilliant.
As in the Vajrayana
tradition of Buddhism,
which is taught
by the Dalai Lama,
Dalai Lama often
says our whole life
is a preparation for the moment
of death, how conscious you
are in that moment.
So I think he was
pretty conscious.
Third drop.
He timed it perfectly.
So I sense him is always here.
When the body drops, it
becomes more big, freer.
[MUSIC PLAYING, NON ENGLISH
SINGING]
>> I had no energy to
converse with anyone.
I could care less.
It was so peripheral.
I just needed to be me.
Not even like analyzing
or including feelings
or thinking about them or
trying to put some kind of story
around it and literally
just like letting my body
and being experience what
just happened for a while
and just breathing and
aligning and saying,
hey, this is my practice
of like I don't need
to figure this event out yet.
>> But the invitation
is, I think,
to understand what
relating means.
To relate is to serve each
other to evolve, you know?
When you yourself are in
pieces, you cannot give peace
to anybody and nobody
going to peace to you.
You are shattered glass.
You can never fill anybody
or never be filled.
You can keep on complaining, and
blaming, and I have too much,
and you don't understand me and
all of these things, you know?
We have to come to the root
to the source, you know?
When it comes to spirituality,
we need connection
to the great mystery.
We need a profound sense of
love beyond the five senses.
The only question is whether
you understand yourself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You know, I'm enamored
of children and education
in particular and feel it's
of paramount importance.
So to see the kids
in a setting where
I could see the
training going on,
and to see their
smiles on their face,
and to ask that little boy that
I was spending a lot of time
with to read in English
and be in a foreign country
and hear him articulate
so clearly some pretty
complicated kind of language
levels just resonated with me.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
What happens when
we all go home?
That's always like closing
business meeting or an email.
What's your plan of action?
What's the next step?
Because otherwise it
tends to fizzle out,
the interest is
lost, we all go home,
and we're back to
our normal routine.
And that experience in
Tungnath provided me
with some of that
evidence that there
is something beyond the
physical that's energetic,
that can have real impact on
us emotionally and spiritually
and physically.
So whether that means I
start to read more about it,
speak more with educated people
about it, do some meditation,
do some yoga, I'm not sure yet.
But it now is going to
be more of an element
in my life of interest that
I start to explore more.
>> Coming here was the
mass freedom and liberation
of mommy-hood.
It's so fabulous this whole
trip that that obvious freedom
of not even hearing "Mom"
was very interesting.
People actually
call me by my name,
which is not normal in my life.
But on the other level
is a true inner freedom.
I feel like it's
still integrating.
I felt like this
morning in the practice
I can feel a huge
sense of freedom
and this slight sense of fear
that I know what I'm going back
to is not going to be the same.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Since I've been here
I've felt that freedom.
I feel like it's
an option always,
and the doubt has kept me from
feeling that all the time.
That doesn't have anything
to do with my life situation
or the people around me.
It's all within me.
[CHATTERING AND LAUGHING]
>> I saw the fire dancers down
by the bridge after we came
back from the kid's school,
which was a beautiful
experience, and my spirit
immediately wanted to go
because it was nighttime, there
was these six fire dancers,
and my spirit called me there.
But the group was moving, so
it was just keeping my mind
on that track to give honor
and respect to that experience
and finish it to completion.
So that was something
that Anand said, hey,
stay focused, complete
your cycles, finish it,
and things will be all right.
[CHATTERING]
>> So Mario, the ever
wandering adventurer,
realizes he needs to stay with
the group seeing that it's not
always an outward adventure
that you need to chase.
The seeking of truth,
this seeking of Dharma,
is absolutely an inner game.
>> The world around you is
happening inside of you.
Color red to the roses
given by your eyes.
The sounds are only existent
when they hit your ears.
Before that they're just
waves moving through the air.
Our minds are creating
this reality all the time,
whether it's sounds, sight,
smells, touch, all of it.
And that's one of
the big teachings
is to realize that the
experience is the experience,
that you are the
experience, you.
It's you who shaped
it, you who decide.
How is your state
of consciousness
will shape that moment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You know, we all came here
with our masks on and now
we've peeled off the masks
and our true selves have been
revealed.
And it's nice to be
able to share, you know,
who we really are
with each other.
You know, we've all shared
something very deep and very
emotional and we're
a family, you know,
whether we like
it whether or not.
I think we all like each other.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Whatever's going
to happen will happen.
I mean, the universe
takes care of you
and leads you in
the right direction.
And after being up
in the mountains,
I think I have a sense of
clarity and calmness now.
I'm not as nervous
or fearful as you
might be going through a
transformation in life.
So it's good.
It's all good.
>> And I'm still kind of amazed
about myself that I just made
up my mind, take this trip
with no hesitation whatsoever.
It was just something
that I wanted to do.
I was just hoping
that I'd be accepted.
It's kind of like
a dream for me.
Things happened so rapidly
I can hardly sort of keep
track of where I was.
I just have this
scene of the mountains
and that sort of
overwhelms everything else.
I'm really curious
to see how I feel
when I get back to Los
Angeles and if there's
a difference in how I relate.
I've never had this
much time to think
about how do I really
relate to Barbara
and the rest of my family.
The problem is we're
all too busy in LA.
People hardly take time to go
to yoga let alone meditate.
But I think the appreciation
of the yoga practice
and what it leads
to is growing, and I
think there will be more
people that have the courage
to take a trip like this.
>> I actually feel proud, yeah.
I think part of me knew
that I could do it.
I just didn't know
how, you know?
And I kind of try to stay
out of how in my life,
but you need a how
to stay on a bike
on a cliff in the Himalayas.
So the how was
revealed and I just--
I'm kind of proud
that I stayed open,
that I didn't let
the fear or the falls
before we left for the
journey stop me, you know?
Like nothing inside
of me or nothing
that was a part of my experience
in the past knew how to do it,
so I had to just
learn in the moment
and just be open to being
able to do it, you know?
So I'm proud that I didn't let
my mind, the figuring it out,
or the fear prevent me
from experiencing it.
I mean, it was incredible.
I would like to
use my experience
to challenge women
to incorporate
more risk every day, you know?
Just a little bit more
risk, because it's
important in order
for us to go higher,
and actually we
will be supported.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Our journey started at the
Ganga river with blessings
for adventure and
focused intentions.
We now return to
her to give thanks,
to remember our lessons learned
as this part of our lives,
of our stories, is
coming to an end.
>> (SINGING)
Flowing and growing.
The river is flowing
down to the sea.
Oh, mother, carry me.
Your child I'll always be.
Oh, mother, carry
me down to the sea.
The river is flowing,
flowing and growing.
>> You know, Anand has been
pushing me here and there,
you know, and mostly about
kind of stepping into my power,
kind of coming out of
my shell, you know?
And I really-- that
stays with me every day
since we've been back
here and translates
to everything for me, right?
From riding the bike to just
sitting and talking to people.
Like it just sits in the
back of my mind, you know?
And really I think freedom
just means the freedom
to be your full
and present self.
You know, I've seen
it happen among us
and I know it's
happened for me now.
You've got to just strip away
that who you think you are,
that who you want
other people to think
you are, to just be who you are
and strengthen that every day,
and that's what I think
freedom to me means anyways.
It's just to be
that, just who I am
and the best who I am that I am.
Yeah, I think as a man you're
probably stronger as a man
to be able to care
and understand
than you are to, you know, be
a bigger man, be a tougher man.
Like who cares really, you know?
You've got to be
able to be a man
and show some sensitivity
at the same time.
That's what needs to happen.
>> And I'm not of the
thing that, you know,
once you come together you
have to stay together forever.
That's just an idea.
It's nowhere in
nature it exists.
Nature is playing and they
come together and move away,
come together and move away.
But it's not--
away is not denial.
It's not a fight.
It's just a natural progression.
Some people are meant to come
together and stay together
forever.
Some people are meant to come
together and serve each other
on a certain level
of evolution and then
they transition onto
different pathways that
is not necessarily bad, which
we have created such a stigma
upon, you know, on divorce.
So for there to be
a divorce, there
has to be first a marriage, huh?
So it's the marriage which is
to be blamed, not the divorce.
The most important
thing of it, even when
I was sharing with
Jeff and Jen, is
to drop this idea of
OK, what can I get.
This is the problem, you see?
What you have to start in
relating is how can I serve?
How can I help
this person evolve?
How can I create an
environment for this person
to have an expansive
experience of life?
Not from an arrogant,
self-righteous place
but from a very humble,
whole, complete space.
>> She's done a lot of things
on her own just to get to this
point that's really helped out,
and now I've realized that I
have to maybe open up more.
Instead of being so
reserved and chilled out,
I have to actually acknowledge
the things that she's done
and really celebrate
it with her, you know,
so she doesn't
feel alone in this,
that we're together in this.
You know, Anand asked us to
write some notes to each other.
The first letters kind
of apologizing for maybe
what we've not
focused on each other
and been a support
to each other.
I think the main thing
that I really apologize
is really neglect.
I mean, I've been there and
I thought I've been there,
but I've just been
a shell at times.
>> I apologized for the
years that I used to drink.
I apologized for resenting him
for being gone all the time.
I apologized for
not communicating
or being too harsh, being
too hard, building up walls.
A lot of things.
Yes, I'm totally
changed from this trip.
I think I said
before I'm softer.
I just feel like a new person.
I think freedom means
not living in your head.
I was in my head all the
time creating stories,
creating problems that
didn't need to be there.
And, you know, the
hike to Kedarnath,
the long motorcycle
rides were the things
that got me out of my head
even more so than meditation.
And that's when I felt
totally free, when
there was no thoughts, no--
nothing there.
Just empty and just living
and being fully present.
And I think that's freedom.
Yeah, we're definitely--
we connected again.
We still have a lot
to work on, but this--
it brought us back to this--
I think we're on
the same page now.
I think we're back together.
I was looking at him sleeping
last night and I was like,
I really love him.
Like I'm in love again with more
than just him, with everything.
>> After my experience two days
ago swimming across the river,
I'm reminded of how powerful
and how sacred she is.
I think in general
it's shown me to see
the sacred in all of life.
>> With the guru, I think
it's really important to have
a sacred relationship that
sometimes you do need to shut
up and listen and really
drop your agenda if you want
to learn.
I would also say
that, you know, it
doesn't have to be
the form of a guru.
At any moment it could
be something else.
It could be your
relationship and you
can treat that as
sacred and now you're
starting to be on the
path and let there be
something sacred in our lives.
Why not?
Why not have
something mysterious?
Why not have something sacred?
Would you rather not?
Would you rather not have
anything sacred or mysterious
in your life?
And I think we choose
to not have that.
I don't know why
exactly, but I think
we choose to not have that.
And so that's something I
think anyone can practice,
be it the moment they
walk up to the person
and say hello and treat
them in a respectful way
just because they're valuing
that moment and the time
and that person's eyes.
>> We traveled to
four sacred peaks,
but those peaks can be
anything and anywhere.
And on this journey
I think we all
realized that we have the
choice of how we see life.
We have that freedom.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Predominantly, our life
happens inside of us until we
are not radically ready to pay
attention to that, you know?
Till then, it's
same old, same old.
So the dancer is the dance, and
the experience the experiencer,
the observer the observed,
the reporter the reported,
the listener is the words,
the listener is the meaning.
That's why in the
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH],,
Shiva says to the goddess,
the master to his beloved,
pay not attention to my
words, divine feminine,
pay attention to the gap between
my words because in the gap you
will find the being and
you will merge in it.
When you merge in the
being, all understanding
will dawn on you because
you are it already.
And that's the base
of all teachings.
But I think human beings,
we can agree with it,
but it takes a lot of courage.
It takes a deep
understanding of detachment.
It takes a deep understanding
of stepping in one's own power.
It takes a deep awareness to
take an absolute responsibility
of one's existence.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[MUSIC PLAYING, NON ENGLISH
SINGING]